FROM: "David Fertig" <dfer...@cymfony.com>
SUBJECT: MergePolicy$MergeException during IndexWriter.addIndexesNoOptimize
DATE: 3 Feb 2009

Hello. Hopefully this is the correct forum.  I am currently using
release 2.3.2 as my stable release, but have tried this 2.4 as well.

 

I have 4 threads indexing documents into separate indexes and then
merging them into a larger master index.

 

If the master index is previously corrupted (such as a file is
'accidentally' removed), and an exception occurs during merge with
IndexWriter.addIndexesNoOptimize(Directory[]), I have been unable to
catch it and report the index.  It would appear that lucene does not
catch or log it either.

 

Thank you in advance,

Dave 

 

 

Exception in thread "Thread-5"
org.apache.lucene.index.MergePolicy$MergeException:
java.io.FileNotFoundException:
/entixd/dfertig/indexes/moreover/20090115/0/_0.cfs (No such file or
directory)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.ConcurrentMergeScheduler$MergeThread.run(Concurr
entMergeScheduler.java:271)

Caused by: java.io.FileNotFoundException:
/entixd/dfertig/indexes/moreover/20090115/0/_0.cfs (No such file or
directory)

        at java.io.RandomAccessFile.open(Native Method)

        at java.io.RandomAccessFile.<init>(RandomAccessFile.java:212)

        at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory$FSIndexInput$Descriptor.<init>(FSDir
ectory.java:506)

        at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory$FSIndexInput.<init>(FSDirectory.java
:536)

        at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory.openInput(FSDirectory.java:445)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.CompoundFileReader.<init>(CompoundFileReader.jav
a:70)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.SegmentReader.initialize(SegmentReader.java:277)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.SegmentReader.get(SegmentReader.java:262)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.SegmentReader.get(SegmentReader.java:221)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.IndexWriter.mergeMiddle(IndexWriter.java:3263)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.IndexWriter.merge(IndexWriter.java:2968)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.ConcurrentMergeScheduler$MergeThread.run(Concurr
entMergeScheduler.java:240)

Exception in thread "Thread-6"
org.apache.lucene.index.MergePolicy$MergeException:
java.io.FileNotFoundException:
/entixd/dfertig/indexes/moreover/20090115/0/_0.cfs (No such file or
directory)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.ConcurrentMergeScheduler$MergeThread.run(Concurr
entMergeScheduler.java:271)

Caused by: java.io.FileNotFoundException:
/entixd/dfertig/indexes/moreover/20090115/0/_0.cfs (No such file or
directory)

        at java.io.RandomAccessFile.open(Native Method)

        at java.io.RandomAccessFile.<init>(RandomAccessFile.java:212)

        at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory$FSIndexInput$Descriptor.<init>(FSDir
ectory.java:506)

        at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory$FSIndexInput.<init>(FSDirectory.java
:536)

        at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory.openInput(FSDirectory.java:445)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.CompoundFileReader.<init>(CompoundFileReader.jav
a:70)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.SegmentReader.initialize(SegmentReader.java:277)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.SegmentReader.get(SegmentReader.java:262)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.SegmentReader.get(SegmentReader.java:221)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.IndexWriter.mergeMiddle(IndexWriter.java:3263)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.IndexWriter.merge(IndexWriter.java:2968)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.ConcurrentMergeScheduler$MergeThread.run(Concurr
entMergeScheduler.java:240)

Exception in thread "Thread-7"
org.apache.lucene.index.MergePolicy$MergeException:
java.io.FileNotFoundException:
/entixd/dfertig/indexes/moreover/20090115/0/_0.cfs (No such file or
directory)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.ConcurrentMergeScheduler$MergeThread.run(Concurr
entMergeScheduler.java:271)

Caused by: java.io.FileNotFoundException:
/entixd/dfertig/indexes/moreover/20090115/0/_0.cfs (No such file or
directory)

        at java.io.RandomAccessFile.open(Native Method)

        at java.io.RandomAccessFile.<init>(RandomAccessFile.java:212)

        at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory$FSIndexInput$Descriptor.<init>(FSDir
ectory.java:506)

        at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory$FSIndexInput.<init>(FSDirectory.java
:536)

        at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory.openInput(FSDirectory.java:445)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.CompoundFileReader.<init>(CompoundFileReader.jav
a:70)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.SegmentReader.initialize(SegmentReader.java:277)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.SegmentReader.get(SegmentReader.java:262)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.SegmentReader.get(SegmentReader.java:221)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.IndexWriter.mergeMiddle(IndexWriter.java:3263)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.IndexWriter.merge(IndexWriter.java:2968)

        at
org.apache.lucene.index.ConcurrentMergeScheduler$MergeThread.run(Concurr
entMergeScheduler.java:240)


