Message-ID: <7487052.1075855010005.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 5 Jun 2001 14:43:35 -0700 (PDT)
From: kimberly.watson@enron.com
To: tk.lohman@enron.com, michelle.lokay@enron.com
Subject: FW: Morning Meeting
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Watson, Kimberly </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=KWATSON>
X-To: Lohman, TK </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Tlohman>, Lokay, Michelle </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Mlokay>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \MLOKAY (Non-Privileged)\TW-Commercial Group
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: MLOKAY (Non-Privileged).pst

Let's get together on Thursday at 1:30 to discuss our plans for the morning meeting.  Thanks, Kim.

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Lohman, TK  
Sent:	Tuesday, June 05, 2001 8:23 AM
To:	Watson, Kimberly
Subject:	RE: Morning Meeting

Thurs. would work better with me.  Wed. I have lunch with Calpine and a TW "dog and pony" show afterwards.

TK

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Watson, Kimberly  
Sent:	Monday, June 04, 2001 5:53 PM
To:	Lohman, TK; Lokay, Michelle
Subject:	FW: Morning Meeting

TK and Michelle,

NNG is starting to have conversations about the format of the morning meeting.  I would like for us to be a voice and participate in the changes.  Let's meet on Wednesday or Thursday to discuss.  Are you available on Wed at 2:00 or Thursday at 1:30?  Please let me know your preference.

Thanks, Kim.

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Branney, Theresa  
Sent:	Monday, June 04, 2001 5:45 PM
To:	Williams, Jo; Neubauer, Dave
Cc:	Watson, Kimberly; Mercaldo, Vernon; Neville, Sue; Miller, Kent
Subject:	Morning Meeting

Jo,

Vernon and I got together and came up with some suggestions on possible formats for the morning meeting.  Below are some of the ideas that we came up with:

As suggested before, we would like to break up the price reporting by giving each individual an area to report.  This could include cash, forward and operational information.  Also, that individual would report on what dynamics they expect to see in the forward market and the impact it would have on NNG.  These areas would be rotated every three months to help each individual learn the various regions.  Vernon, Jeff, John and myself could come up with the format and divide up the areas.  

Operations group could report maintenance on the surrounding pipelines that interconnect with NNG. They have alot of contact with the other pipelines and could provide valuable information to the group.  Also, once the pipeline scrapping project is developed further, would it make sense for this group to utilize and compile this information?

Could the TW reporting be expanded to include a marketing person in the meeting that could provide marketing and pricing information?  They could report on the West region and the dynamics that would effect both TW and NNG.

Capacity Release information could become part of the format as needed.  What is on the report that has changed?  How does this year compare to last year?  Was there a large package of capacity that was posted but never transacted?

Do we want to telescope the meeting?  Start out with all groups and then allow certain groups to leave after their presentations?

One individual could be responsible for reporting weather information.


Please let us know your feedback!

Thanks!
Theresa