FROM: Tomcat Programmer <tcprogram...@yahoo.com>
SUBJECT: QueryParser Rules article (Erik Hatcher)
DATE: 13 Nov 2003

I thought Erik's article was great. There was one
unanswered brainbender I had which I was hoping was in
there, but... Maybe you can add this topic to the next
one, Erik? 

Here is my issue: 

When using the QueryParser class, the parse method
will throw a TokenMgrError when there is a syntax
error even as simple as a missing quote at the end of
a phrase query. According to the javadoc, you should
never see this class derived from Error being thrown
(oops?)

I did some searching on the archive for this list, and
turned up some old articles from 2001 in which Brian
Goetz was asking Paul Friedman for an example of a
query like that, so he could fix it. I saw that Paul
posted a sample, but I never saw a response back from
Brian.  Looking in the CHANGES.txt file all the way
back to 1.0 there is no mention of any modification
regarding exceptions or errors. 

Has anyone discovered a good practice for trapping
syntax problems and then returning an informative
message to the user on how to fix their query? I would
be interested in code samples as well if you have any
:)

Thanks a lot! 

-Tom



__________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Protect your identity with Yahoo! Mail AddressGuard
http://antispam.yahoo.com/whatsnewfree

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org


