Message-ID: <12865655.1075857544662.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 20 Feb 2001 00:10:00 -0800 (PST)
From: jeffrey.shankman@enron.com
To: jennifer.burns@enron.com
Subject: Crude/Products Strategy Meeting
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Jeffrey A Shankman
X-To: Jennifer Burns
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Jeffrey_Shankman_Jun2001\Notes Folders\Discussion threads
X-Origin: Shankman-J
X-FileName: jshankm.nsf

please print
----- Forwarded by Jeffrey A Shankman/HOU/ECT on 02/20/2001 08:10 AM -----

	Randal Maffett
	02/16/2001 12:00 PM
		 
		 To: Doug Leach/HOU/ECT@ECT, Douglas S Friedman/HOU/ECT@ECT, Marc De La 
Roche/HOU/ECT@ECT, David A Terlip/Corp/Enron@Enron, Jennifer Fraser/HOU/ECT, 
Don Schroeder/HOU/ECT@ECT, John L Nowlan/HOU/ECT@ECT, Bill 
White/NA/Enron@Enron, John L Wilson/NA/Enron@ENRON, Jim Goughary/HOU/ECT@ECT, 
Adam Gross/HOU/ECT@ECT, Justin Cornett/NA/Enron@ENRON, Richard 
Lassander/Corp/Enron@Enron, Jim Cole/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT
		 cc: Beth A Ryan/HOU/ECT@ECT, (bcc: Jeffrey A Shankman/HOU/ECT)
		 Subject: Crude/Products Strategy Meeting

As part of our process of developing a cohesive strategy for the crude & 
products origination group, we are hosting a "Strategy Session" on Wednesday, 
February 21 starting at 3:30 p.m.  It is expected to run about 3 hours.  The 
location has not yet been determined but my assistant, Beth Ryan (x57161) 
will confirm this next week.  This meeting replaces the prior meeting set up 
for Thursday, 2/22 from 8 am to noon.  Representatives from McKinsey will 
also participate/direct this meeting as facilitators to our strategic 
process.  We're finalizing an agenda which will be forwarded to you once it 
is complete.  (de la Roche/Terlip - please be sure this gets sent to all 
attendees asap).


This will be a very important process which we feel your input is critical 
and valuable.  I want to encourage everyone to not only attend but to be 
proactive in the process as well.  This will start as somewhat of a 
"brainstorming" session but our plan is to evolve into a definitive set of 
priorities, opportunities and action items which we hope will create value 
across both the trading and origination groups.  Given the size of the group, 
it has been very challenging finding a convenient time and place to 
accomodate everyone but I hope each of you will do what you can to attend.  
We've purposefully started the meeting late to try and accomodate the 
traders' schedule needs.



BETH:

WE NEED TO GET EITHER A CONF ROOM (preferably) OR RESERVE A MEETING ROOM AT 
THE DOUBLETREE, HYATT OR WEDGE TOWER, ETC... FOR THIS MEETING.
PLEASE CHECK THE DISTRIBUTION LIST ABOVE AND COMPARE AGAINST YOUR LIST OF 
ORIGINAL INVITES TO THIS MEETING.  IF I'VE MISSED SOMEONE, PLEASE BE SURE 
THEY ARE NOTIFIED OF THE CHANGE IN DATE, TIME AND PLACE.  ALSO, BE SURE TO 
LET MCKINSEY KNOW THE LOCATION AS WELL.