FROM: "Chuck Williams" <ch...@manawiz.com>
SUBJECT: RE: Is there an easy way to have indexing ignore a CVS subdirectory in the index directory?
DATE: 4 Nov 2004

Otis, thanks for looking at this.  The stack trace of the exception is
below.  I looked at the code.  It wants to delete every file in the
index directory, but fails to delete the CVS subdirectory entry
(presumably because it is marked read-only; the specific exception is
swallowed).  Even if it could delete the CVS subdirectory, this would
just cause another problem with Netbeans/CVS, since it wouldn't know how
to fix up the pointers in the parent CVS subdirectory.  Is there a
change I could make that would cause it to safely leave this alone?

This problem only arises on a full index (incremental == false <=>
create == true).  Incremental indexes work fine in my app.

Chuck

java.io.IOException: Cannot delete CVS
    at org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory.create(FSDirectory.java:144)
    at org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory.<init>(FSDirectory.java:128)
    at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory.getDirectory(FSDirectory.java:102)
    at
org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory.getDirectory(FSDirectory.java:83)
    at org.apache.lucene.index.IndexWriter.<init>(IndexWriter.java:173)
    at [my app]...

  > -----Original Message-----
  > From: Otis Gospodnetic [mailto:otis_gospodnetic@yahoo.com]
  > Sent: Thursday, November 04, 2004 1:54 PM
  > To: Lucene Users List
  > Subject: Re: Is there an easy way to have indexing ignore a CVS
  > subdirectory in the index directory?
  > 
  > Hm, as far as I know, a CVS sub-directory in an index directory
should
  > not bother Lucene.  As a matter of fact, I tested this (I used a
file,
  > not a directory) for Lucene in Action.  What error are you getting?
  > 
  > I know there is -I CVS option for ignoring files; perhaps it works
with
  > directories, too.
  > 
  > Otis
  > 
  > 
  > --- Chuck Williams <chuck@manawiz.com> wrote:
  > 
  > > I have a Tomcat web module being developed with Netbeans 4.0 ide
  > > using
  > > CVS.  One CVS repository holds the sources of my various web files
in
  > > a
  > > directory structure that directly parallels the standard Tomcat
  > > webapp
  > > directory structure.  This is well supported in a fully automated
way
  > > within Netbeans.  I have my search index directory as a
subdirectory
  > > of
  > > WEB-INF, which seemed the natural place to put it.  The index
files
  > > themselves are not in the repository.  I want to be able to do CVS
  > > Update for the web module directory tree as a whole.  However,
this
  > > places a CVS subdirectory within the index directory, which in
turn
  > > causes Lucene indexing to blow up the next time I run it since
this
  > > is
  > > an unexpected entry in the index directory.  To make things works,
to
  > > work around the problem I both need to delete the CVS subdirectory
  > > and
  > > find and delete the pointers to it in the Entries file and
Netbeans
  > > cache file within the CVS subdirectory of the parent directory.
This
  > > is
  > > annoying to say the least.
  > >
  > >
  > >
  > > I've asked the Netbeans users if there is a way to avoid creation
of
  > > the
  > > index's CVS subdirectory, but the same thing happened using WinCVS
  > > and I
  > > so I expect this is not a Netbeans issue.  It could be my relative
  > > ignorance of CVS.
  > >
  > >
  > >
  > > How do others avoid this problem?
  > >
  > >
  > >
  > > Any advice or suggestions would be appreciated.
  > >
  > >
  > >
  > > Thanks,
  > >
  > >
  > >
  > > Chuck
  > >
  > >
  > >
  > >
  > 
  > 
  >
---------------------------------------------------------------------
  > To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
  > For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org


