FROM: Michael van Rooyen <mich...@loot.co.za>
SUBJECT: java.io.IOException: read past EOF since migration to 2.9.1
DATE: 17 Feb 2010

Hello all!

We've been using Lucene for a few years and it's worked without a 
murmur.  I recently upgraded from version 2.3.2 to 2.9.1.  We didn't 
need to make any code changes for the upgrade - apart from the 
deprecation warnings, the code compiled cleanly and 2.9.1 worked fine in 
testing.

Since going live a few days ago, however, we've twice had read past EOF 
exceptions.  The first time it happened, I checked the index and an 
error had crept into the deleted docs count on the main segment:

Segments file=segments_cefg numSegments=4 version=FORMAT_DIAGNOSTICS 
[Lucene 2.9]
   1 of 4: name=_abtf8 docCount=9710072
     compound=true
     hasProx=true
     numFiles=2
     size (MB)=4,254.56
     has deletions [delFileName=_abtf8_df.del]
     test: open reader.........FAILED
     WARNING: fixIndex() would remove reference to this segment; full 
exception:
java.lang.RuntimeException: delete count mismatch: info=263213 vs 
deletedDocs.count()=260032
         at 
org.apache.lucene.index.CheckIndex.checkIndex(CheckIndex.java:499)
         at org.apache.lucene.index.CheckIndex.main(CheckIndex.java:903)

I checked the logs for the our process that updates the index and there 
were no exceptions logged.  I then optimized the index and checked it 
again and it was all okay, so obviously the optimize / merge process is 
happy to work on an index where the deletions file is in error.

Today, we got the second read past EOF exception.  This time I checked 
the index again and no errors were detected.  I think that whatever 
error there was that led to the EOF exception was on a small segment 
file that got merged into a larger one as more updates were made, before 
I had time to check the index.

Does anyone have any ideas as to what could cause this, or what we could 
do to avoid it happening?  The stack trace for the EOF exception is below.

Thanks,
Michael.

Caused by: java.io.IOException: read past EOF
	org.apache.lucene.index.CompoundFileReader$CSIndexInput.readInternal(CompoundFileReader.java:245)
	org.apache.lucene.store.BufferedIndexInput.refill(BufferedIndexInput.java:157)
	org.apache.lucene.store.BufferedIndexInput.readByte(BufferedIndexInput.java:38)
	org.apache.lucene.store.IndexInput.readInt(IndexInput.java:70)
	org.apache.lucene.store.IndexInput.readLong(IndexInput.java:93)
	org.apache.lucene.index.FieldsReader.doc(FieldsReader.java:210)
	org.apache.lucene.index.SegmentReader.document(SegmentReader.java:948)
	org.apache.lucene.index.DirectoryReader.document(DirectoryReader.java:506)
	org.apache.lucene.index.IndexReader.document(IndexReader.java:947)


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


