FROM: petite_abeille <petite_abei...@mac.com>
SUBJECT: [OT] Zoe open source
DATE: 3 Jun 2002

Hello,

I'm releasing Zoe under the Apple Public Source License and putting 
together a SourceForge project to coordinate the future development of 
Zoe. Our plan is to choose a handful of experienced developers to form 
the core development team for Zoe. Anyone is free to contribute code 
which members of the development team will review add back into the 
codebase. Over time we will invite developers who have demonstrated 
their interest and abilities to join our core team. We'll keep the 
mailing lists public and encourage everyone to sign up and throw in any 
comments they may have. There has been a tremendous amount of interest 
in having Zoe released as an open source project and we think that this 
will be the best way to manage all the different voices.

Right now we need to know which of you are interested in contributing 
code to Zoe and how interested you are. If you are interested in being 
on the core team of developers and helping zoe become the best e-mail 
client out there, we want to hear from you. Members of the core team 
will be expected to watch the mailing lists,  regularly contribute to 
the codebase, and review and integrate contributions by other 
developers. If you would like to be considered as a member of the core 
team we would like you to e-mail a resume, if you have one, some code 
snippets, and a note letting us know what you are interested in doing 
with zoe.  i.e is there a particular set of tools you would like to 
implement, or enhance. Email these to Kate at masukomi@masukomi.org. She 
will be helping me out and coordinating the SourceForge project for zoe.

Thanks.

PA.


--
To unsubscribe, e-mail:   <mailto:lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org>
For additional commands, e-mail: <mailto:lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org>


