FROM: "Santosh" <santos...@softprosys.com>
SUBJECT: Re: pdfboxhelp
DATE: 20 Aug 2004


  ----- Original Message ----- 
  From: Don Vaillancourt 
  To: Lucene Users List 
  Sent: Friday, August 20, 2004 7:37 PM
  Subject: Re: pdfboxhelp


  Here is the super simple code required.

  import org.pdfbox.searchengine.lucene.*;

  File pdfFile = new File("/path/to/the/file.pdf");             

  // Below returns a parse PDF file in a Lucene Document object.
  Document doc = LucenePDFDocument.getDocument(pdfFile);

                  
  Santosh wrote:

exactly, the same is required to me
  ----- Original Message ----- 
  From: Don Vaillancourt 
  To: Lucene Users List 
  Sent: Friday, August 20, 2004 6:39 PM
  Subject: Re: pdfboxhelp


  What are your intensions with PDFBox?

  You want to use it to index PDF files?

  Santosh wrote:

hi,

I have downloaded pdfbox zip. but i am in ambigous state that where to start. how can I check
with demo, I dont see any help document with this download, please help me.


regards
Santosh kumar
SoftPro Systems
Hyderabad


"The harder you train in peace, the lesser you bleed in war"

-----------------------SOFTPRO DISCLAIMER------------------------------

Information contained in this E-MAIL and any attachments are
confidential being  proprietary to SOFTPRO SYSTEMS  is 'privileged'
and 'confidential'.

If you are not an intended or authorised recipient of this E-MAIL or
have received it in error, You are notified that any use, copying or
dissemination  of the information contained in this E-MAIL in any
manner whatsoever is strictly prohibited. Please delete it immediately
and notify the sender by E-MAIL.

In such a case reading, reproducing, printing or further dissemination
of this E-MAIL is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.

SOFTPRO SYSYTEMS does not REPRESENT or WARRANT that an attachment
hereto is free from computer viruses or other defects. 

The opinions expressed in this E-MAIL and any ATTACHEMENTS may be
those of the author and are not necessarily those of SOFTPRO SYSTEMS.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

  



  -- 
  Don Vaillancourt
  Director of Software Development

  WEB IMPACT INC.
  phone: 416-815-2000 ext. 245
  fax: 416-815-2001
  email: donv@web-impact.com
  web: http://www.web-impact.com



  This email message is intended only for the addressee(s)
  and contains information that may be confidential and/or
  copyright. If you are not the intended recipient please
  notify the sender by reply email and immediately delete
  this email. Use, disclosure or reproduction of this email
  by anyone other than the intended recipient(s) is strictly
  prohibited. No representation is made that this email or
  any attachments are free of viruses. Virus scanning is
  recommended and is the responsibility of the recipient.



-----------------------SOFTPRO DISCLAIMER------------------------------

Information contained in this E-MAIL and any attachments are
confidential being  proprietary to SOFTPRO SYSTEMS  is 'privileged'
and 'confidential'.

If you are not an intended or authorised recipient of this E-MAIL or
have received it in error, You are notified that any use, copying or
dissemination  of the information contained in this E-MAIL in any
manner whatsoever is strictly prohibited. Please delete it immediately
and notify the sender by E-MAIL.

In such a case reading, reproducing, printing or further dissemination
of this E-MAIL is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.

SOFTPRO SYSYTEMS does not REPRESENT or WARRANT that an attachment
hereto is free from computer viruses or other defects. 

The opinions expressed in this E-MAIL and any ATTACHEMENTS may be
those of the author and are not necessarily those of SOFTPRO SYSTEMS.
------------------------------------------------------------------------





------------------------------------------------------------------------------


  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
  For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org

-----------------------SOFTPRO DISCLAIMER------------------------------

Information contained in this E-MAIL and any attachments are
confidential being  proprietary to SOFTPRO SYSTEMS  is 'privileged'
and 'confidential'.

If you are not an intended or authorised recipient of this E-MAIL or
have received it in error, You are notified that any use, copying or
dissemination  of the information contained in this E-MAIL in any
manner whatsoever is strictly prohibited. Please delete it immediately
and notify the sender by E-MAIL.

In such a case reading, reproducing, printing or further dissemination
of this E-MAIL is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.

SOFTPRO SYSYTEMS does not REPRESENT or WARRANT that an attachment
hereto is free from computer viruses or other defects. 

The opinions expressed in this E-MAIL and any ATTACHEMENTS may be
those of the author and are not necessarily those of SOFTPRO SYSTEMS.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

  



  -- 
  Don Vaillancourt
  Director of Software Development

  WEB IMPACT INC.
  phone: 416-815-2000 ext. 245
  fax: 416-815-2001
  email: donv@web-impact.com
  web: http://www.web-impact.com



  This email message is intended only for the addressee(s)
  and contains information that may be confidential and/or
  copyright. If you are not the intended recipient please
  notify the sender by reply email and immediately delete
  this email. Use, disclosure or reproduction of this email
  by anyone other than the intended recipient(s) is strictly
  prohibited. No representation is made that this email or
  any attachments are free of viruses. Virus scanning is
  recommended and is the responsibility of the recipient.



-----------------------SOFTPRO DISCLAIMER------------------------------

Information contained in this E-MAIL and any attachments are
confidential being  proprietary to SOFTPRO SYSTEMS  is 'privileged'
and 'confidential'.

If you are not an intended or authorised recipient of this E-MAIL or
have received it in error, You are notified that any use, copying or
dissemination  of the information contained in this E-MAIL in any
manner whatsoever is strictly prohibited. Please delete it immediately
and notify the sender by E-MAIL.

In such a case reading, reproducing, printing or further dissemination
of this E-MAIL is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.

SOFTPRO SYSYTEMS does not REPRESENT or WARRANT that an attachment
hereto is free from computer viruses or other defects. 

The opinions expressed in this E-MAIL and any ATTACHEMENTS may be
those of the author and are not necessarily those of SOFTPRO SYSTEMS.
------------------------------------------------------------------------





------------------------------------------------------------------------------


  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
  For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org

-----------------------SOFTPRO DISCLAIMER------------------------------

Information contained in this E-MAIL and any attachments are
confidential being  proprietary to SOFTPRO SYSTEMS  is 'privileged'
and 'confidential'.

If you are not an intended or authorised recipient of this E-MAIL or
have received it in error, You are notified that any use, copying or
dissemination  of the information contained in this E-MAIL in any
manner whatsoever is strictly prohibited. Please delete it immediately
and notify the sender by E-MAIL.

In such a case reading, reproducing, printing or further dissemination
of this E-MAIL is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.

SOFTPRO SYSYTEMS does not REPRESENT or WARRANT that an attachment
hereto is free from computer viruses or other defects. 

The opinions expressed in this E-MAIL and any ATTACHEMENTS may be
those of the author and are not necessarily those of SOFTPRO SYSTEMS.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

