Message-ID: <4996399.1075849382049.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 30 Jul 2001 08:09:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: dave.perrino@enron.com
To: dave.perrino@enron.com
Subject: RE-SCHEDULE NOTICE - Western Government Affairs Meeting
Cc: steve.walton@enron.com, alan.comnes@enron.com, christi.nicolay@enron.com, 
	debra.davidson@enron.com, james.steffes@enron.com, 
	paul.kaufman@enron.com, ray.alvarez@enron.com, 
	sarah.novosel@enron.com, steve.hall@enron.com, karen.denne@enron.com, 
	lysa.tracy@enron.com, debra.davidson@enron.com, 
	susan.landwehr@enron.com, jeff.dasovich@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: steve.walton@enron.com, alan.comnes@enron.com, christi.nicolay@enron.com, 
	debra.davidson@enron.com, james.steffes@enron.com, 
	paul.kaufman@enron.com, ray.alvarez@enron.com, 
	sarah.novosel@enron.com, steve.hall@enron.com, karen.denne@enron.com, 
	lysa.tracy@enron.com, debra.davidson@enron.com, 
	susan.landwehr@enron.com, jeff.dasovich@enron.com
X-From: Dave Perrino
X-To: Dave Perrino
X-cc: Steve Walton, Alan Comnes, Christi L Nicolay, Debra Davidson, James D Steffes, Paul Kaufman, Ray Alvarez, Sarah Novosel, Steve C Hall, Karen Denne, Lysa Tracy, Debra Davidson, Susan M Landwehr, Jeff Dasovich
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Jeff_Dasovich_Oct2001\Notes Folders\Notes inbox
X-Origin: DASOVICH-J
X-FileName: jdasovic.nsf

Dear All,

As a result of the recent volume of activity in Washington DC, with mediation 
proceedings, refund discussions and the need for key members of our team that 
need to attend these meetings, it has been decided to re-schedule the meeting 
of the Western Government Affairs group to Wednesday, September 12, in 
Portland, 10AM-5PM.

For those of you who had planned on attending, I am sorry to cause you this 
inconvenience.  Hopefully for those of you who wanted to attend, but 
couldn't, this will offer you the opportunity to participate on September 12.

Due to the volatility of policy related issues in our region, I would expect 
there may be some modifications to our current agenda below.  As these 
changes occur I will communicate this information to you.

Any questions or concerns, please contact me.

Kind Regards,

Dave


   
	
	
	From:  Dave Perrino                           07/20/2001 09:36 AM
	

To: Steve Walton/ENRON@enronXgate, Alan Comnes/PDX/ECT@Enron, Christi L 
Nicolay/HOU/ECT@ECT, Debra Davidson/ENRON@enronXgate, James D 
Steffes/NA/Enron@Enron, Paul Kaufman/ENRON@enronXgate, Ray 
Alvarez/NA/Enron@ENRON, Sarah Novosel/Corp/Enron@ENRON, Steve C 
Hall/ENRON@enronXgate, Steve Walton/HOU/ECT@Enron, Karen 
Denne/ENRON@enronXgate
cc: Lysa Tracy/ENRON@enronXgate, Debra Davidson/Enron@EnronXGate 

Subject: Draft Agenda for - Western Government Affairs Meeting

Below is a draft agenda for our planned meeting on Wednesday August 1 in 
Portland Oregon from 10-5.  Tim Belden will be joining us from11:30-1PM 
(thanks Debra) and the agenda is taking Tim's time into account.  We will be 
meeting in the Mt. Hood Room, a working lunch will be provided (thanks 
Lysa).  

If you would like to modify the agenda, please send your edits to me.

10:00   Meeting called to order - Brief Introductions - All
10:10   Overview of Western Government Affairs Priorities (Jim or designee?)
11:00   What are the short-term needs of our Western Commerical Staff? (Alan?
)
11:30   Brief Overview of July 12 Rulings and discussion of the potential 
impacts on the West (Ray/Christi/Sarah? and Group)
12:30   RTO/ISO Status Update (in alphabetical order)
  CAISO   (Sue)
  DSTAR   (Dave)
  RTO West  (Steve)
2:00 RTO Strategy discussion "How we move forward and how we should leverage 
the recent FERC July 12 rulings"     (Group/Jim?)
3:30 Meetings, RTO's and WSCC - Ranking and Coverage coordination (Group)
4:30 Northwest OASIS "Enhancements" - Solicitation of Trader Comments (Dave)  
(Note, Alan, can you please ask Diana,   Sean and Bill Williams III to see if 
they can schedule time to attend?)

While developing this agenda from everyone's input I was thinking that NERC 
is beginning to assert more and more influence (good or bad) on the entire 
industry.  I would like to know if our group feels it would be useful to 
invite either Charles Yeung or Andy Rodriquez to our meeting to overview NERC 
activities and or Electronic Scheduling?

Also, if Steve Hall has any legal or contract issues he'd like to discuss 
during our meeting I'll be happy to add time for that.

Again, as noted above this is a draft and as you can see I have 
un-democratically nominated (suggested) folks for leading various 
discussions.  Any comments or confirmations of commitment to lead an agenda 
item would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks for everyone's input.

Kind Regards,

Dave

