FROM: "John Powers" <jpow...@configureone.com>
SUBJECT: synchronize hits variable?
DATE: 28 May 2007

In a j2ee webapp we have a search object that stores a user's search
preferences (items/page, detail level, etc).  it has a search() that
calls a static method getSearcher() that returns a static IndexSearcher
that all these user search objects use.....searching with that gives us
a Hits object that this user object iterates through to find out what
categories are used, which ones to display, etc.    this hits object is
huge.   Its fluffing up each user session by 20M in some cases.    This
is unacceptable of course.    I am sure many have run into this issue,
and I was curious what you did to solve it.     If I use a local
variable to that search method, null it after I'm done and call gc(), it
still is bad.    I can't put the hits variable into a static object or
attribute cause of course there are multiple of these user search
objects using it at any time.     Even if I isolated the user search
part to a singleton, others may use it at the same time as well.      I
imagine some sort of synchronization of that static variable is in order
but am not quite sure.   does someone have an example of this?  I would
image everyone has had to deal with this problem.   20M is just to big.
When we use a profiler we find that it's a char[] that seems to be
holding a lot of the data..like 16M of it.    For different indexes in
different servers, this size is different, but for the most part its way
to big everywhere.

 

Thoughts?  I appreciate any help on this.

 

Thanks

 


