FROM: kbforge1 <vict...@kbforge.com>
SUBJECT: kbforge 2.10 released
DATE: 13 Jul 2006


kbforge.com is pleased to announce Release 2.10 of kbforge, a desktop search
application of particular interest to people on the move, including software
developers.
kbforge is different from other desktop search applications because it
creates a database you can carry with you practically anywhere there is a
USB port to connect to, with complete interoperability between Windows and
Linux. A flash memory stick, a portable hard drive or even an MP3 player
have all been used. kbforge is also able to categorize the information
before it is indexed. Using databases and collections of databases, kbforge 
categorizes information into meaningful topics which can be searched
individually or in groups. A host of other features and options make kbforge
the ultimate tool for finding that elusive program fragment, or example or
article or tutorial. Databases can be refreshed automatically, on a
schedule.
kbforge can index inside .ZIP and .JAR files, remove HTML tags before
indexing, etc..
It uses Lucene for indexing and searching, and as the default database
manager. When used in conjunction with Lucene, kbforge is entirely self
contained and can run anywhere.

Written entirely in Java it is the first of its kind to run under Linux as
well as Windows.

kbforge Release 2.10 costs less than a slice of pizza and is just as
addictive, but unlike a slice of pizza it lasts forever and, in the unlikely
event that you don't like it, you will get all your money back.  

Go to http://www.kbforge.com/topics/kbfeatures.html 

Victor Negrin

vnegrin@kbforge.com
-- 
View this message in context: http://www.nabble.com/kbforge-2.10-released-tf1934597.html#a5300730
Sent from the Lucene - Java Users forum at Nabble.com.

